# Euler-Captcha-Solver

Project Euler uses its own Captcha system to protect several forms on the website, eg. logging in, creating an account and submitting new answers. The Captchas generated by this system consist of just 5 digits from 0-9 of different colours, which should be entered from left to right into a verification box.

It seemed to me that these captchas would be relatively easy for a program to defeat, which is what this project explores.

## Process

### Training - labelCaptchas.py (Run this file to generate more training data)

The first step is to collect training data. We can generate a captcha from the url https://projecteuler.net/captcha/show_captcha.php. To create training data, we get a new captcha from the website, mark out the digits and show it to the user to label. We then append each digits data and its label to our training file.
1. Request captcha from website
2. Pass the captcha through the digit detection to identify individual digits and show captcha with digits marked to user
3. Record the label of each digit and its array to the training file

### Solving - solvecaptchas.py (Run this file to see captchas being solved)

This stage is to provide the prediction of a captcha. We first train our KNN model using the training data, then request a file from the website. We then pass prep it and pass it through our model to predict.
1. Load training data and training KNN model using training digits and labels generated in training
2. Get a captcha from the website and pass through digit detection to get individual digits
3. Pass the digits through the KNN model to predict them and output the value

## Implementation - captchautils.py

The functions which perform work on the captchas are found in this file and are accessed by the other files.
